In the previous step, we looked at versioning our
APIs using our URI.
So what are the other options that are present let's look at them in this specific step.
One of the options that we have is to use a request parameter.
So how do we do that?
So I'll say slash person is the URI and I'll just distinguish the different method by using their name. So I’ll say
slash person because we are using a request param I’ll set slash param. Let's say that’s the URI. I’ll just
call this method. Param V1 and let's call this Param V2.
Ok cool! Now, the code would compile but you’d still need to differentiate between these two have
the same mapping.
Now how do you want to distinguish them? I’ll to put a value attribute because we would want to add the second
attribute in. The second attribute which we would want to add in something called params.
You can say params is equal to which param you want to use for distinguishing. So I can say version
is equal to one. I can copy the same thing out and say version is equal to two in here.
Now we are doing versioning using a request parameter.
Let's see how to execute this stuff.
Now what I can do is instead of the..I need to pass in the entire one so person slash param version is equal
to one.
Now you would see that when I say version is equal to 1, I get Bob Charlie, version is equal to
two. I get Bob and Charlie. This is cool.
This is one way of doing that.
We'll discuss more about
advantages and disadvantages a little later. We'll just focus on initially different options that
have are present.
So now I would want to use another one.
Another option of doing versioning. The option we want to use is called header versioning. So we would
use a header parameter. We would have a parameter in the request header which would be used to differentiate
between these two.
So I’ll say header V1
And here I'll call this header V2
And instead of the params we would want to use the header params.
How do we do that?
We do it by using the headers.
So instead of params it is headers. You can say version is equal to two or if you want to be really specific I
can say X API hyphen version is equal to two.
I'm keeping it all caps because it's a header thing. Oops! I'm changing the wrong one.
So let's remove it from there.
It's not the one I want to change. I want to change the one with headers.
So what we want to do here is X API version is equal to one.
And for the second one, I would say to it’s version two. And this is a header. Slash person slash header. I’m differentiating
them based on the headers.
So let's see what would happen.
So here we are using header.
And also we want to pass in header. So X API version one.
What's the response? Bob Charlie.
If I send in two, name and first name last name.
So this is another way of versioning.
This is using something called a header.
So I'm using a header called X API version and based on the request header we are differentiating them.
Last option of versioning which is typically used is something called by using produces.
So I rename this.
So it's called produces.
This is again a header parameter. However, the way this is sent in request is a little different. What we’d need
to say is something of this kind. So I'm saying produces is equal to application slash vnd company app.
And I'm saying my company V1. So what does the produces do?
So the produces attribute is actually saying what is the output of this specific service.
So what kind of output are we producing until now?
So until now, we were always producing application slash JSON. Over here, we are saying, we are not producing
application JSON. We are actually appending something saying we are going to do V1.
So we are using produces to differentiate between these services. So lets call this produces V1.
and this one, we’ll call this produces.
V2.
Over here, I’ll copy this.
This will be, what will it be? V2
How do I send this as part of our request?
How did we send application JSON as part of our earlier request? Lets copy this and I would go here
and this is now based on produces. We want to differentiate based on produces. So I don't want to send
the API version. But I would want to send a new one. How do we send application JSON?
We would say accept. So what we are saying is we would accept this version.
So which version? V1 JSON.
And when I send you get a.
Bob Charlie back and if I say V2 you would get the new structure back first name last name and name.
We created an API here and this was a version using a request param.
This was used …version using a header param. And this was version using the produces. The produces is sent as
accept header.
So this is also called accept header versioning. And this is called header versioning. This is also called
mime type versioning because applicaiton slash json is typically a mime type, right? So we are using the
mime type to version our API. Mime type versioning or accept header versioning.
And this is the head versiong and this would be typically called request parameter versioning and the
first one which we talked about is called URI versioning.
So these are the different options of versioning the APIs.
So how do you really choose between them? We looked at media type versioning which was what we called Mime versioning.
It is also called content negotiation or accept header versioning.
And also we looked at header versioning, URI versioning and parameter versioning. Passing a
request parameter.
So this can be actually a request parameter versioning.
The thing is, there are quite popular organizations where each one of these is used. Media type versioning
is used in GitHub, custom headers versioning is used by Microsoft. URI versioning is used by Twitter and
request paramter versioning is used by Amazon. The usage here is quite varied. Typically the factors
that you’d need to consider when you talk about URI versioning
are basically, think about the URI pollution.
If you look at the URI versioning and the request paramter versioning, we are actually polluting the
URI space.
So we are actually creating new URIs or creating new request parameters as part of the URIs. Whereas
in these two
we are actually not polluting the URI space at all. These two do, what is called misuse of HTTP headers.
HTTP header were never intended for versioning.
And the other important factor is cashing. Because these two approaches use headers to differentiate
between the requests, the caching can never come into picture because I cannot cache requests because
they have the same URI. I would also need to look at the headers and do complicated things like that.
So caching becomes very difficult here. But in these two options URI versioning and request paramter
versioning
I can still cache them because the version is part of the URI. The other important factor you can consider
is executing a request on the browser.
What we did was, we executed all the requests using REST service client Postman.
But think about a end user of your application. Probably most of them would be using a browser.
So will they be able to execute the requests on the browser. For these two,
No. For the media type versioning and custom header versioning.
You cannot execute them on the normal browser. You have to actually have some kind of a plugin and
the user has to have some kind of technical knowledge to be able to configure a HTTP header,
HTTP request header and send the request out.
But if you are using URL versioning or request parameter versioning, even a normal user would be able to fire a request
very easily.
I mean …I’m obviously talking about just the request to retrieve the data. As far as the request to..let’s say create something
or update something, you would anyway need to send the body and that would definitely need a little
bit of technical knowledge.
And the last one is how easy is it to generate your API documentation.
You need to ensure that whatever thing that you are using is documented very well so your consumers
know how to send the versioning input to your service.
So you need to document that.
And with the URI versioning and the request parameter versioning the documentation is a little easy because
you can directly generate it out of code. But with the others it might be a little difficult to generate
documentation out of code.
OK.
These are the different factors that you would consider before you try and version your API.
Before you even try and select an option for versioning your API.
The important thing to realize is there is no perfect solution.
I mean there is no solution which would fit everybody.
Most important thing I would recommend you to do when you are starting building your APIs, finalize your
versioning.
So before you build your first API, have your versioning strategy really. Build a few examples of it, test
them, make sure they are all working for your needs.
That's the best you can do.
Until the next step, bye-bye.